So in the last lectures, we added validation,
now as in a template driven approach, we can now use this form status to display messages
but it works a bit differently because we access the controls differently.
Let's say we want to display a message below the input here for the username
if that is incorrect.
So I'll add a span with a class of help-block again, the Bootstrap class and I'll say please enter a
valid username, like this.
Now in the template driven approach, we would place username on this and I say NgModel to get
the reference. This doesn't work here because again, this is not set up via NgModel,
this is not registered via NgModel but it's still very easy.
We can simply add ngIf of course because we want to determine whether to display this or not
and then we can get access to this by accessing our overall form
and here, we have a get method. The get method allows us to get access to our controls easily, here
you can either specify the control name or I will come back to this later,
the path to the control. Now for now the path is the name because we only have one level of nesting
in our form object and here, the name is username.
So this gives us access to this username control and now valid holds whether this control is valid
or not.
So if it's not valid, I want to output this
and of course again to give the user the chance to change it, I'll also check if signupForm
get username actually was touched.
So by adding this, we should see no messages displayed, if I click in there and click out of there,
we see the error and if I enter something valid, it's gone again.
So this is how easy you can get access to a control in your form with this get helper method.
Now I will repeat this for the e-mail here,
so we load the input here,
I will simply exchange username for e-mail and I will do it for the overall form,
here I can simply remove this get access here and just execute valid untouched on the overall
form which of course also has these properties.
So please enter validator might be the right message here and up here for the e-mail, it should be please enter
a valid e-mail.
So with this in place, we should see nothing right now, if I click in here and out of there, we see the
message for the username as before and for the overall form which is still there because e-mail is invalid
but now if I enter something valid there, we don't see it, if I remove this, we see the message for the
field here
and for the overall form again.
So now we're using the forms date again
and of course keep in mind, these CSS classes ng-touched, ng-invalid are still added.
So you can still go to your CSS code and say an input with ng-invalid and ng-touched should still
receive a border which is red for example.
So that is still possible,
the classes are the same as in the template driven approach,
so now if I click in there and leave it,
you see it now has a red border which disappears as soon as the value becomes valid.
So this is how you can still use the form state, important takeaway, you access your elements differently
with this get helper method to conveniently get access to them.